# klipper-dgus_for_kobra_max

Deutsche Anleitung: https://book.cryd.de/books/klipper/page/youtube-kobra-display-mit-klipper

The following Kobra models have been tested:
- Kobra Max with Trigorilla Pro A 1.0.4
- Kobra Max with Trigorilla Pro B 1.0.2

Theoretical compatibility (models to be added after testing):
- Kobra
- Kobra Plus
- Kobra 2

For usage, the display is no longer connected to the printer but directly to the Raspberry Pi via GPIO.

Bill of Materials (BOM):
- Dupont Connector 4 Pin (for connecting to Raspberry Pi GPIO)
- JST XH Connector 6 Pin (for connecting to Kobra Display)
- Cables

## Flashing the Display:
1. Download the DWIN_SET.zip (created with the DGUS-Tool), unzip it, and copy its contents to a correctly formatted microSD card.

Download link: https://github.com/cryd-s/kobra_extended/blob/main/dgus-project/DWIN_SET.zip

2. Insert the microSD card into the powered-off display.

3. Power on the display.

4. A blue display screen will show the progress of the flashing process.

5. During the flashing process, the second line will display:

```
SD Card Process...
```

Once the flashing is completed, the second line will show:

```
SD Card Process... END!
```

6. Power off the display.

7. Remove the microSD card.

CAUTION:

It is crucial that the microSD card is correctly formatted with the following settings:
- File system: FAT32
- Allocation unit size: 4096

## installation
For a simple installation on MainsailOS, you can find a setup script named "install_for_mainsailos.sh" in the project folder.

Follow these steps to install:

1. Copy the necessary data:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/cryd-s/kobra_extended.git
mv kobra_extended klipper-dgus
chmod -R 700 klipper-dgus
cd klipper-dgus
```

2. Execute the installation script:

```bash
./install_for_mainsailos.sh
```

IMPORTANT: During the installation, you will be prompted to enter your sudo password.

## config files
### dgus_display_macros.cfg
1. Copy the "dgus_display_macros.cfg" configuration file to the "config" folder of your Klipper setup.
2. In the "printer.cfg" file, add the following line to include the "dgus_display_macros.cfg" configuration:

```
[include config/dgus_display_macros.cfg]
```

### serial_config.json
The file "serial_config.json" contains the settings for the serial interface used to communicate with the DGUS display.

The choice of serial interface depends on the specific Raspberry Pi model and the version of Raspbian being used. Start by selecting one interface, and if the display doesn't work, try the alternative interface as a workaround. If the display still doesn't function, please refer to troubleshooting steps.

By default, the following serial interface is commonly used:

```
"serial_port": "/dev/ttyS0"
```

If the display doesn't work, you can change the interface using this command:
From "ttyS0" to "ttyAMA0":

```
sed -i '3s|/dev/ttyS0|/dev/ttyAMA0|' /home/pi/klipper-dgus/config/serial_config.json
```

If you need to revert the change (from "ttyAMA0" to "ttyS0"):

```
sed -i '3s|/dev/ttyAMA0|/dev/ttyS0|' /home/pi/klipper-dgus/config/serial_config.json
```

### websocket.json
The "websocket.json" file contains the settings for the Websocket connection used to communicate with Klipper through the Moonraker socket.
In most cases, only the first two parameters, *ip* and *port*, need to be changed.
In addition to the *ip* and *port* settings, there are some other objects described here.

```json
{
    "websocket": {
        "ip": "127.0.0.1",
        "port": 7125,
        
        "printer_objects": {
            "some_more_entries": "..."
        },

        "data_model": {
            "some_more_entries": "..."
        }
    }
}
```

IP:
The IP address of the machine where Moonraker is running. If using MainsailOS, it's the same IP address used to connect to the web interface.

Port:
The port on which Moonraker is transmitting. By default, it runs on 7125, and usually, no changes are required.

printer_objects:
In this section, the *printer objects* are defined, which are used by the display. See [this link](https://moonraker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/printer_objects/) for more information. Changes here may be necessary if new information is to be used on the display.

data_model:

The data_model contains the data recently exchanged with Moonraker. This section doesn't require any manual adjustments. It is generated by the Display Controller application and any manual changes will be overwritten when starting/shutting down the Controller application.
